The reading and the lecture are both about the first grain-based food. The author of the reading believes that bread is the first grain-based food. The lecturer casts doubt on the claims made in the article. She thinks that beer is the first grain-based food.

First of all, the author points out that wheat could be prepared for use by grinding. It is mentioned that people probably began consuming wheat is very hard so that they gradually discovered that it was less trouble to eat if crushed to paste between two stones. This point is challenged by the lecturer. She says that you don't have to grind wheat to make it easier to eat. Furthermore, she argues if you keep wheat in a moist environment, it naturally starts sprouting, with a new baby plant splitting the hard seed case in half, and to discover the usefulness of sprouted wheat is more easier.

Secondly, the author points out that baking the simplest bread requires no technology but fire. The article notes that when baked into bread, it could be stored for longer periods then raw seeds. The lecturer rebuts this argument. She suggests the early peoples wouldn't have thought to fire it before eating. She elaborates on this by mentioning that the idea that you would take fire to food to improve it for eating was not obvious.

Finally, the author states that yeast spores from the air settled on it and began fermenting the wheat. The article establishes that this natural process of fermentation caused bubbles to form in the wheat paste. The lecturer, on the other hand, posits that wheat begins to ferment almost as soon as it's stored. She puts forth the idea that the process would been obvious because of the bubbles and foam that formed and people could have experimented by tasting it and discovering the first beer.
